---
layout: post
title: My Story
---
I have been whole food plant based since October 2011 after watching Forks Over Knives.
I have lost 92 pounds. I went from 230 to 138 pounds. I am still slowly losing weight.
In the beginning the weight flew off, then leveled off for nearly a year, before additional weight loss began.
My BMI dropped from 42.1 to 25.2. My goal is to reach a normal BMI of less than 25.
So I have about 1.5 pounds more to go.
I have been trying to incorporate more exercise into my life.
I don't have a lot of times on the days I work, after my 12 hour shifts, but I have been trying to exercise more on days when I am off.
And I've been concentrating on doing things I can do at work like parking farther away, taking the stairs, etc.
My total cholesterol dropped from 195 to 145. My LDL dropped from 118 to 68.
I am off my blood pressure medication.
My blood pressure was up to around 160/100. My average now is around 110/80.
I have seen it as low as 102/53.
My pulse used to race around 100 bpm.
Now I have seen my pulse as low as 48 bpm.
I was very high risk for diabetes and heart disease.
Both of my parents have high blood pressure and type II diabetes.
I had high blood pressure and started taking medication at only 23 years old.
I had polycystic ovarian syndrome which seemed like a catch 22 situation.
Obesity is listed as a cause and a symptom.
Another cause associated with PCOS is insulin resistance.
Insulin resistance is also related with prediabetes and diabetes, so I thought if a whole food plant based diet could help with diabetes and insulin resistance, maybe it could help me.
PCOS can also lead to other problems such as high blood pressure (which I already had), type II diabetes (which I was very high risk for), and high cholesterol (which I already had according to Dr. Esselstyn's standards).
I knew if there was a chance this diet would help I should try it.
Within a month of starting my new lifestyle, my horrible menstrual cramps went away.
I had never had a period regularly, maybe every 6 months or so.
But when I did, I got very sick.
My menstrual cramps used to be so bad I would lie on the floor in a fetal position unable to move.
Sometimes I would pass out or vomit.
I had to take birth control pills just to make myself have a period regularly.
Some of the symptoms I had from PCOS were acne, high testosterone levels, obesity, facial hair, and infertility.
I was told that I would probably have to take fertility medication if I ever decided to have children.
I went off birth control for a few years because I figured there was no point in taking it to prevent pregnancy if I was infertile.
For the two years I went off birth control my periods went back to being irregular, and I did not get pregnant.
I went back on birth control pills after my doctor told me they would help with the increased acne I was having.
He said I should take them to make myself have a period because not having one is unhealthy.
So I went back on birth control and my periods went back to a regular schedule.
When my birth control renewal came around I had some problems with the pharmacy and insurance company, so I let my prescription lapse.
I thought I would see if I could maintain a regular period on my new diet without medication.
For four months my periods came like clockwork, and then stopped.
I took a pregnancy test and it came back positive.
All signs of PCOS are gone.
Another problem I had was severe constipation.
I had tried everything for it including many medications (some of which were very expensive), coffee, magnesium supplements, aloe juice, prunes, tons of water, extra fruit and veggies, and fiber supplements.
Nothing ever helped.
I had been diagnosed with IBS and even had to undergo a colonoscopy when I was only 26 years old.
I haven't had an issue with constipation since becoming plant based.
Everything about my health is better, and I will never go back to my old ways.
